Show me buttons that I can press.
Buttons that you can press?
Yeah.
Oh, like on the keyboard?
Here.
Yeah.
You type in.
N, good one!
Can you spell your name?
Um, P?
Yeah.
F.
P-Y.
What else?
(child hissing gently)
(key tapping)
O!
Pyopim?
P! (giggles)
P.
Pyop, is that you name?
No!
Pyop?
(giggling) No.
No?
I, I wanna press that one.
All Right, you press that one
and then you go back down to mum, okay?
No.
Do it.
I don't wanna go back down.
Why not?
Because this office is much more fun.
It is so much fun, isn't it?
(gentle clanking)
What's that?
A phone.
A phone!
It's not a phone.
(child laughing)
All right.
All right, you stinker, get outta here.
No.
All right, so when we go from page to page
you click on one of these links.
It's like instant for us.
It's because we're local.
We're just, we're just loading a piece of text.
It's very fast.
But what happens is, if your site does get slow
whether it's slow internet connection,
you're on the subway,
or you just have, for some reason,
your database call is slow,
for whatever reason,
the user needs to know that something is happening.
So what we're going to do
is we're going to implement this NProgress
where, when you click on one of the URLs,
see this fancy little woooo
right across the top?
That's what we're gonna do.
And that is a package called NProgress.
And we're going to go into our _app.JS
and we're going to implement it.
So, first thing that we need to do
is to import the styles for NProgress.
So, import
and NProgress, the package,
ships all the styles for you.
So you just import nprogress/
nprogress.CSS.
And then I'm going to,
let's just put a little to do, swap with our own,
just so I can show you how to load your own CSS
or load it from the package as it's installed.
Now, that is going to immediately break.
Error not caught type parent node anchor element.
And you might, if it broke for you,
the reason behind that is
because we haven't gone into our document.JS yet.
And remember I commented this out.
Let's just put it, put it in there.
I should have put it in there in the first place.
We're going to be doing some custom stuff
with CSS in just a second.
Now I believe if we refresh the page, there we go.
Now it's looking much better for us.
Also, this warning?
Don't worry about that.
We're gonna fix that in the next video as well.
Next, what we need to do is to import our NProgress.
So we'll import N,
P.
Capital N, capital P, progress.
From nprogress.
I have a little,
I have a little text expander snippet
that will automatically lowercase that for me,
because I always type things like,
Hey, hey, like that, see?
So if I do two capitals in a row,
it'll fix it for me.
But in this case, I need that.
Okay.
Then NProgress itself has just a couple of values.
Let's actually search for it.
Let me show you.
It can start, doo.
It can be set to a certain amount.
It can be incremented.
And then finally it can be finished.
So what we're gonna be doing
is we're gonna start it as soon as a link starts
and finish it when the page transition is done.
So we'll go into our app.JS,
and we need to import the router from next.JS,
so that we can hook into a couple events that they have.
So, we'll import capital R, Router
from its next/router.
Okay?
And then we will take that router,
capital R, Router.events.on
and we are going to listen for the route change start event.
And when that happens,
we're going to run a little arrow callback function
that is NProgress.start.
Okay, let's let's just start there.
So, Router.events,
when it starts, it starts the NProgress.
So let's try it now on our own website here.
See?
See how it's like, it's going?
Load, load load.
Then what we need to do is duplicate that line
and we're going to listen to the route change complete
and we're gonna be NProgress.done.
And then duplicate that line one more time,
and we're going to say route change error,
just in case there is an error,
then we gotta turn it off as well.
So now watch this.
When I go from page to page,
you see how it goes nice and quickly?
(imitates laser zapping)
Finally, let's swap that out
with our own custom NProgress CSS.
I have put it in the styles folder.
It's not really a component.
It's just a .CSS file.
And what we'll do is, we will swap that out.
We'll say import.
Go up a level into components
into styles and grab NProgress.CSS.
And we get rid of this old one.
Now I go from page to page.
You see, I get that nice thick red one.
Looks a little bit nicer with our page.
So that is it.
That's a really good use case
because very rarely
do we actually need to hook into the router
unless we want to either listen for events
or programmatically change the page.
We will be doing both of those
once, like once you buy something,
and we change the page to the order page.
But that is how we implement NProgress in next.JS.